HARI PRASAD RENGANATHAN
1520 Riverside Station Blvd, Secaucus, NJ
linkedin.com/in/hariprasad20/
EDUCATION
Columbia University
Master of Science, Data Science
Coursework: Machine Learning for Data Science, Exploratory Data Analytics and Visualization, Algorithms for Data Science, AI Applications in Finance, Finance and Structuring for Data Science
Kumaraguru College of Technology
Bachelor of Engineering, Mechanical Engineering
Awarded with meritorious scholarship ($600) 3 times for excelling in top 5% of the department
SKILLS
● Tools: Python, R, MS Excel, Tableau, SQL, WordPress, Snowflake, AWS, PySpark, Databricks
● Libraries/Frameworks: Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scikit-learn, Keras, Beautiful Soup, ggplot2, Git, Dash
● Data techniques: Neural Networks, Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning, Exploratory Data Analysis, Web
Scraping, Data Visualization, Hypothesis Testing, Time Series, ETL, Sales forecasting, Price Elasticity, Fuzzy Matching
EXPERIENCE
Take-two Interactive Software, Inc. New York, NY Associate Data Scientist Aug 2022 - Present
● Redesigned model store client, enabling version control of model metadata and implementing restrictions on direct model registration into development, enhancing model governance and improving collaboration between teams.
● Developed an application to compare 1400 machine learning models simultaneously and implemented batch registration of models, streamlining workflow efficiency. Reduced model deployment time by 80%.
● Executed simulations of sales for various discounts, providing critical insights for promotion planning and enabling the sales team to make informed decisions, resulting in a projected increase in sales revenue by 15%.
● Created a fuzzy matching algorithm utilizing cosine similarity to join tables with external vendor data, improving data accuracy and enabling more informed decision-making. Increased data matching accuracy by 95%.
● Implemented a robust model validation pipeline, allowing for the tracking and evaluation of model performances at the entity level (~5000 models), leading to continuous model improvement and enhanced business outcomes.
Data Science intern May 2022 - Aug 2022
● Optimized sales forecasting model by introducing ARIMA, enabling more accurate predictions for sales projections.
Increased revenue forecast accuracy by 25%.
● Collaborated closely with ML Engineers and Data Analysts to deploy price elasticity model outputs into production
using Dash, resulting in real-time insights for the sales team and enhancing decision-making capabilities.
● Conducted comprehensive competitive analysis on data from 72 companies using Snowflake, SQL, and Tableau,
providing valuable insights for identifying market trends, opportunities, and potential risks.
Ask2AI New York, NY Financial Data Scientist Spring Intern Jan 2022 - May 2022
● Forecasted future returns and volatility using a comprehensive 650-dimensional macro-economic time-series dataset. Achieved an average forecasting accuracy of 85% for returns and 80% for volatility.
● Applied rolling window Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to identify the most influential factors driving the macro-economic trends. Reduced dimensionality of the data by 90% while retaining 95% of the explained variance.
● Built a predictive model using LSTM Neural Networks to capture complex temporal dependencies in the data. Achieved an impressive Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) of 7% in predicting future returns and volatility.
GoTTR New York, NY Founding member & Data Scientist Jul 2021 - Dec 2021
● Regularized data-scraping and data-modeling for a massive 100 GB dataset, reducing manual work that previously took 4 hours to just a few seconds, resulting in significant time savings and improved productivity.
● Led a team of 5 in computerizing data management on Google Cloud (GCP) and implementing an Email-Alert system. This initiative resulted in monthly cost savings of $7000 by improving operational efficiency.
● Leveraged Python, SQL, Pandas, and Scikit-learn to automate data management processes, achieving a 75% reduction in data processing time and improving data quality and accuracy.
DADDYODA Coimbatore, India Co-founder & Marketing Data Scientist Jul 2020 - Jul 2021
● Automated the delivery of 50+ weekly promotional emails to a user base of 10,000+, utilizing Python. Increased operational efficiency by 30% and reduced manual effort by 20 hours per week.
● Implemented text analytics to predict customer sentiments in reviews, reducing Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC) by 20% through improved targeting and personalized marketing strategies.